[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Throughout human history
we've been searching
for the holy grail,
the fountain of youth, which is
to slow down the aging process.
The exciting new science
of telomere research
may be offering us some hope.
And today we have
Dr. Ed Park with us
here to talk about the
hard core science of it.
We also had a conversation
with two men featured
in the movie, "The
Immortalists," Dr. Bill Andrews
and Terry Grossman,
where we got into some
of the philosophical
aspects of what
happens with immortality and
a little bit of the science.
So today what I want
to do is pick up
with a bunch of the science.
But first, as with
them, I would like it
if our viewers could get to
know you a little better,
so let's start
out with where you
entered into the world of
medicine to begin with.
And it's always-- with
the people I interview,
it's always an interesting
and odd pathway
to get where they are now.
>>DR. ED PARK: So I was born
into a family of doctors,
I guess you could say.
My mom was a nurse and my dad
said, well, go to med school.
So we did that, fulfilled
the programming,
and then into a normal
middle class life.
Somewhere at the
age of 39, my dad
was diagnosed with brain cancer.
And like most people,
you don't really
worry about getting old or sick
until it touches you closely.
So I googled on
the internet what
causes people to
get old and sick,
now it seemed like a
real problem to me.
And there are only like five
theories, and four of them
didn't seem very good.
So I researched
this telomere thing.
At that time, I thought, boy,
this is really interesting.
It sounds true.
I even wrote a screenplay
and a graphic novel
based on a future where people
could take something called
a telomerase activator
and stay young
and what would that mean for
the social implications-- which
a year later ironically,
such a thing came to market.
So I became one of
the first 19 people
to take this
telomerase activator,
and it immediately
transformed me.
And that kind of set me on the
journey away from traditional
allo-medicine or--
>>REGINA: Yes.
Allopathic medicine.
OK.
Can we go back
just a little bit?
I like some of the
early work you did,
where you had a chance
to go to Mongolia.
But again, the pressure to
stay on, do the right thing,
be a good spouse, a
good son, a good father,
and stay with your medical
career was always there.
But let's talk
about what happened
with, I think it was Jim Kim,
when you first met Jim Kim
and what he lit you up about
and the whole journey that
would have taken you
to Mongolia having
to do with female reproduction
and IUDs and such.
>>PARK: Yeah.
Well, in high school,
I met Jim Kim,
who's now the president
of the World Bank.
And he's touched a lot
of people, not just me.
But he got me fired up about
studying medical anthropology.
So I thought, well, here's a
great way to impact the world.
And I love being immersed
in different cultures.
And so that was my major,
and that was my intent
through med school.
And I also got a
master's in public health
because I figured I would
be a pediatrician working
internationally, you know,
like Doctors Without Borders
or something.
And through the process of
being acculturated to life,
you know, and
spousehood, there was
a bit of a different
vision in how
we would co-create our
lives, so my ex-wife actually
called an intervention.
So my parents came down--
>>REGINA: Well, this
was because you had been
offered the gig in Mongolia.
>>PARK: Right.
To run family
planning for Mongolia.
>>REGINA: And she couldn't
really see her life blossoming
in Mongolia, I assume.
>>PARK: No.
We were looking at model
homes in Orange County,
not like Soviet-era
concrete jungle blocks.
>>REGINA: I mean, it's
funny just thinking
about the quandary you were in.
>>PARK: Yeah, it is funny.
But, you know, it
happened for a reason,
because it took me time
to acquire the skills
and to embark upon this path.
And so it's ironic.
With the IUD thing, I was
practicing OB/GYN for 14 years.
And we were in a
situation where we
would buy these IUDs from the
only monopoly in the country.
And they cost like
$50 or $60 more
to buy than we were
reimbursed, which was fine,
because the manufacturer--
>>REGINA: Because you were
working with low-income women
and birth control.
>>PARK: Yeah.
About a third of my practice was
really medically-indigent women
with no insurance per se.
So in order to provide that,
I figured since I had trained
as an expert in IUDs-- I'd
actually worked, ironically,
for the government
to teach women
in El Salvador for the
Agency for International
Development about IUDs.
So I knew that
these were the same.
I went down, and I sought
out a pharmacy where
I could buy a generic form.
Well, somebody at the company
that makes them in the US
didn't like that.
And so they tried to do a
sting on all these doctors.
And long story short,
I got in trouble.
>>REGINA: But when you found
them, it was the same--
>>PARK: Same thing.
>>REGINA: It's the same
product but not private-labeled
as you would find
them in the US.
>>PARK: Right, and unlike
drugs, which are actually
manufactured, this
is just a piece
of sterile plastic
wrapped with copper
and a piece of fishing wire.
It's pretty low tech,
manufactured in an FDA facility
in Mexico.
But the reason why
people don't sell them
is because, you know--
>>REGINA: They're a lot cheaper.
>>PARK: They're a lot cheaper.
And even in Mexico,
it's basically free.
And it's the preferred
form of birth control,
so it's a very safe and
effective non-hormonal method
of birth control.
>>REGINA: But this is where you
got an up-close glimpse of how
the government works.
I mean, no good deed
goes unpunished.
You were trying to help people.
>>PARK: Trying to
help people, yeah.
Probably over the
course a few years
we put in maybe 20 at most.
But this was what caused
the chain reaction, which
made me lose my ability
to practice medicine
for five years which
seems disproportionate.
But in the end--
>>REGINA: Yeah, you
would think, especially
considering your
expertise in the area.
And then ironically, as
I recall in your book,
Canadian MDs doing the same
thing with generic IUDs
were not being slapped.
>>PARK: Right.
Right.
Apparently you could
buy a Canadian IUD
and resell it in this
country, but the US monopoly
had to be preserved.
So, you know, it's
water under the bridge.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now they say, OK, you
can't practice for five years.
And you really--
you chose OB/GYN
because it was a
happy experience,
and you're overly empathetic,
I understand, to suffering
to an extent, right?
>>PARK: Well, you know--
>>REGINA: You didn't enjoy that.
>>PARK: I think that's true.
I think OB/GYNs tend to like
the happier side of medicine.
So when people get
sick, there's a thing
called
countertransference, where
you like feel responsible.
So yeah, it's kind
of a bummer working
with conditions that are not
curable, like neurology or even
medicine.
It's more like
disease maintenance.
But I can literally
count on one hand
the number of things in
14 years that I thought
were not great or
somewhat maybe could
have been improved on my part.
So there's not a lot of regret.
You help people with
problems that are solvable.
>>REGINA: You usher new
life into the world.
>>PARK: Yeah.
You attend births, which
what's more fun than that?
So it was actually a good
segue into anti-aging,
because again--
>>REGINA: Yes.
You're starting at the
beginning of the process.
>>PARK: I attend re-births
now, as I like to say.
And it's all good.
I like to help people.
And part of the
frustration of medicine,
you go in it to help
people, and so much of it
is the inculcation of
hopelessness, right?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARK: So our
religion, as it were,
is that there is no cure
for getting old and dying,
and you're just there
to administer the latest
technology, right?
>>REGINA: To squash
symptoms for a short time.
>>PARK: Or even beget
new ones that can
be treated with the next drug.
>>REGINA: Right.
Well, that is the
other side of it.
Absolutely.
So once you lost your license
for that period of time,
did that give you an opportunity
to express yourself and start
studying in new ways,
going down new channels?
>>PARK: Yeah.
Well, I didn't actually
lose my license.
And we made a plea bargain
which was retracted.
So actually my record, my
license is totally clean.
I could practice medicine.
But I can't bill for
Medicaid or Medicare.
>>REGINA: OK.
So it didn't work on
a governmental level.
Gotcha.
>>PARK: Right.
No.
It's ironic, which just
shows you the irony.
You can actually treat all
Medicare and Medicaid patients,
but you're not allowed to bill.
>>REGINA: You can't
bill the government.
>>PARK: Yeah, which
is pretty much
where they're going anyway.
>>REGINA: OK.
All right.
So now how did you
get from the happy job
of ushering new life
into the world, then
into the telomere research.
And when you first discovered
it, I know you embraced it.
You were one of the first
people in the world that
started taking the
telomerase activator.
So let's talk about
how that happened.
>>PARK: Well, like I
said, so my dad was sick,
battling brain cancer.
And so I thought, this is the
theory that makes sense to me.
And so I wrote
the graphic novel.
And then the next
year a company said,
we have a telomerase activator,
which is something I imagined.
And all of a sudden,
you could try it.
So I didn't let people
know, but I tried it.
I was like the 19th
person in the world.
At that time, it
was very expensive.
It was close to
$30,000 to take it.
>>REGINA: Were you taking
super high dosages compared
to what's available now?
>>PARK: No.
Actually, no.
Quite low.
But they ramped it up very
quickly because it was safe.
They weren't really sure.
It's very kind of--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
You didn't know what
was going to happen.
This is your cellular integrity.
>>PARK: Yeah.
And I applaud the company
for being conservative.
But the initial consent
was really funny.
It was like, oh, if you take
this you're going to get cancer
and all your kids
in all generations
will be stricken with plague.
>>REGINA: Degraded.
>>PARK: Yeah.
It was just totally-- it
was just completely crazy.
But--
>>REGINA: That was what
the disclaimer said?
>>PARK: Yeah.
Yeah.
But for some reason, about 100
eccentrics, Tony Stark X-Men
would-be, ponied
up and tried it.
But the exciting thing
was within three months,
I had lost like 20 pounds
without diet or exercise.
So all my patients came
back for their pap smears,
for their annuals,
"what happened?"
Transformation.
And so I didn't really tell
people what was going on
until about a year.
And then I said, well,
I'm taking this thing--
>>REGINA: Experimental thing.
>>PARK: Right.
And they said,
well, give us some.
We want some.
So I asked the company whether
I could be a provider of this.
And they allowed me
to be the first doctor
outside the company
to prescribe it.
>>REGINA: And the
company is Geron?
Was it a different one?
>>PARK: No, it's a company
called TA Sciences.
>>REGINA: OK.
TA Sciences.
>>PARK: And so they had
sublicensed and then
subsequently acquired
the intellectual property
from Geron.
>>REGINA: I see.
OK.
So now at what
point did you start
allowing your patients
to kind of imbibe
with you, alongside you?
Did you feel comfortable
enough at this point
there were no side effects
that the average person could
start taking it?
>>PARK: Well, even before
taking it, I made sure,
I looked at all the safety,
the efficacy, the toxicity,
totally safe in my mind.
So after about a year,
people would contact me,
because there really was
nobody offering this locally.
So we acquired all the
machinery to test people.
We have really
interesting machines
to test the age of the lungs,
the heart, the skin, the brain.
And so we embarked upon this.
But it's a tough sell.
I mean, the first year or
two, before the Nobel Prize
for telomerase, nobody-- the
only people that came out
of the woodwork were kind
of eccentric, wonderful--
>>REGINA: Wealthy eccentrics.
>>PARK: Wealthy.
Engineers, CEOs-- because that's
the skill set that you need.
A CEO can change the course
of the ship on their judgment.
And engineers don't get
wrapped up in the "what if,"
so they're just very
mechanistic, which
is the thing that differentiates
this sort of thing
from everything else
because you don't
have to have a huge leap of
faith to believe in this.
It just follows
one from the next.
>>REGINA: Well, the
Nobel Prize didn't hurt.
>>PARK: That was
a big breakthrough
because if you talk to
somebody about telomerase,
and if they're not
prepared, they're
like, oh, this sounds
like resveratrol
or CoQ10 or everything else.
But when you say the Nobel
Prize committee has recognized
that this is fundamental
to all life on earth,
people are like, oh, OK.
Maybe this isn't
like everything else.
>>REGINA: OK.
So at that point, when you
first started selling it
as a doctor to
your clients, what
was the price point on it at
that point, just to get a feel?
Like you said, initially it was
expensive, CEOs, eccentrics,
engineers.
So what were they having to
lay down a month to do this?
>>PARK: Anywhere from
like $200 to $900 a month.
>>REGINA: So it
really was just for--
>>PARK: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Not for the average person.
Now, that's changed
considerably since then.
>>PARK: Well, you know,
it kind of depends on
how you value things.
Some people who really
want to believe,
even if it's a struggle for
them, just to see if it works,
we had plenty of people who
were not wealthy try it.
So it's always kind of
like an ongoing dialectic
between the value and the
attribution of the effects.
But most people who
try it do feel it.
And then they have to
wonder, is it worth it?
But if I were to say you,
you could drive a worse car
but then regain 20 years of
genetic endowment in life,
most people would
take that trade.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
And so now you
yourself, because you
were in the very early
stage when it was very, very
expensive, you had made some
money on an investment--
and I love it.
There's a really quirky part
of you that I really like.
>>PARK: Thank you.
>>REGINA: I mean,
you look normal.
But you have an irreverence
about you and you go out
and you do things and
take chances in life.
And you're very creative.
But one of the
things you did is you
invested in Crocs, those funny
little orange and purple shoes.
>>PARK: Yeah, which is
out of Colorado, isn't it?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PARK: Well, you know,
it's a funny story.
I had traded options, you know,
and made money doing that.
But at some point because
Crocs are so ugly, right,
aesthetically, there are a bunch
of very I'm sure knowledgeable
but--
>>REGINA: Not
aesthetically well endowed.
>>PARK: People acted
out of emotion, right?
>>REGINA: Yes, exactly.
>>PARK: So traders
would say there's
no way this company would
go up and up every quarter.
And yet they kept on beating.
And so there were
a lot of people
who took contrary positions,
so that allowed my options
to go crazy high.
>>REGINA: So you made
a bunch of money.
>>PARK: Crazy money.
Easy come, easy go.
But I mean, I know
how to trade options,
all kinds of strategies.
But that was just dumb luck, I
mean being at the right place
at the right time.
>>REGINA: So it gave
you the money, though,
to be able to really invest
yourself into the telomerase.
>>PARK: Right.
Yeah.
I wouldn't have been able
to afford $30,000 a year
on a doctor's salary.
>>REGINA: No.
>>PARK: No.
>>REGINA: OK.
So over the course of,
let's say, let's go ahead
and take it just a little
further out than a year,
two years, three years
and some of the effects
you were noticing in
you and your clients.
And then we're going
to start diving
into more of the science.
>>PARK: Sure.
So for me, it just
was status quo.
Once it cleared out
the bad fat stem cells,
I found it very
difficult to gain weight.
And so it just felt fine.
My telomeres got shorter
initially, then longer.
So I just believe
it's an adaptogen.
It just helps your
body maintain.
>>REGINA: That's a good point.
I didn't write that
down, but I wanted
to ask you if it might
be a type of adaptogen.
>>PARK: Oh, the
ultimate, I think, yeah.
>>REGINA: Really?
>>PARK: So we really don't
know exactly how it works.
I mean, you can look at the
genes that it activates.
And a lot of them have
to do with cell division,
and it's very benign.
It's very limited effect.
But it's a mystery, as is
everything, how things work,
why they work.
But--
So I would acquire patients.
I have well over probably 1,300
patients who have tried it now.
But people would try it and
they'd call me and say, doc,
have you ever noticed people
getting better with regard
to depression or blood pressure
or diabetes or what have you?
>>REGINA: That would
indicate it is an adaptogen,
because it was kind of every
symptom and condition was
being--
>>PARK: Exactly, which,
you know, FDA-wise,
we don't get into
making claims like that.
But as you know, an
adaptogen is something
that just helps the
body restore balance
by some mysterious process.
And so it's really in the
realm of pseudoscience.
And yet, just because
we don't understand it,
doesn't mean there aren't
proximate pathways that
can be elucidated.
But people would call me and
I'd say, oh, that's interesting.
But I have to take it
with a grain of salt also.
A lot of it is placebo, which
is not fake, by the way.
>>REGINA: No, no.
There's a lot of
power in placebo.
That's kind of the
holy grail in a sense.
>>PARK: That's interesting.
Yeah.
We need to get back into that.
But panacea also is
a derogatory term
because people think that a
panacea is by nature false.
But you know I would
kind of file it away.
And when two or three
people called me,
I would do a
webinar just to see.
So we would go over
the basic science
of you name the disease.
There's like 47 of
these now that I've
done on different
topics, from MS
to Parkinson's, sports injury.
And then we talk about
what the literature
with regard to telomeres
and stem cells would be.
And then we'd interview that
person and vet them out.
And I think a lot of
people resonated with those
because you can listen to
an expert or read a book,
but when you really
listen to a person
talk about their experience,
then you can really
kind of intuit whether
they're sincere
and whether it really happened.
And so that really motivated
a lot of people to try it.
And those are out there.
They've gotten over
200,000 views now.
>>REGINA: And I
know that you say
it works better if you
start taking in your 20s,
before the kind of DNA damage,
chromosomal damage occurs.
But you actually have worked
with someone as old as-- what,
how old was she, 110, 111, 112?
>>PARK: Yeah, 112.
>>REGINA: Can you tell us
a bit-- that's extreme.
But can you tell us a
little bit about her case?
>>PARK: Sure.
At the time, she was the oldest
woman in California, Soledad,
and she was 112.
And I knew her
through Steve Coles,
who's the world expert
on supercentenarians,
people over 110,
which is a whole
'nother very interesting topic.
So I met them, and I
got close to the family.
And they were willing to try
it, so we went and tested her.
The interesting thing
that happened with her
happens with a lot of people.
When she started taking it,
her sleep quality changed.
She became very
vociferous at night
and was bothering her
roommate, because she
was having active dreaming.
She was a really amazing lady.
She passed after two years.
She only took it for
a very short time.
Her doctor really was
very resistant to her
being on anything
which was unfortunate.
But the one interesting
transformation
which people are impressed
by, I guess it's impressive,
is that she sprouted
hundreds of jet black hairs.
So that was interesting.
And they persisted until
her death two years later.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>PARK: I mean, she
hadn't had black hair
since the Truman administration
probably, or maybe Johnson.
But it was a while.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now let's start
getting into the science
itself that intrigued
you and that you've
done a lot of research
on, which is why we age.
>>PARK: Yeah.
Well, going back to just the guy
on the internet late at night,
you've got these
theories like you
get old because you don't use
stuff, which is kind of silly.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
We have a few-- OK.
Let's talk, let's
get into those.
>>PARK: Let's call
them out, one by one.
>>REGINA: OK.
We'll call them
out, one at a time.
The activity and continuity
theory-- because these
are all recognizable theories
to each one of us watching this.
>>PARK: Yeah.
I mean, google it,
"why do people age?"
And so this is kind
of really silly.
It says that people get old
because they don't do as much.
But we know plenty of
people who are volunteering
at the senior center,
teaching, volunteer this, that,
and they're learning.
And yet the body and
the mind degenerates.
>>REGINA: And
conversely, we know
people who stay home,
have a couple bourbons,
smoke a cigarette, and enjoy
life and have no real activity,
and they live to be like 105.
>>PARK: Right.
Exactly.
Which is really-- I mean, the
things that we need attribute
to a virtuous,
healthy lifestyle,
they're just kind of
in that whole mix.
But at the end of it, there
is something in the background
fundamentally that's going on.
So that theory kind of
didn't make sense to me.
If that were true, then old
people who are super active
and gregarious wouldn't get old.
But they do.
>>REGINA: They do.
OK.
What about the
accumulative waste theory?
>>PARK: Again, an
interesting theory
and has some truth to it.
But it says that
cells as they get
old because they're observed
to acquire bags of garbage
in them, that this
is the cause of it
and not the result of poor
cellular function in aging.
So you get things
like lipofuscin
or just accumulated waste
products in the cells.
So people say, aha.
The reason why the
cells are damaged
is because they can't
get rid of their waste.
And that's probably
more like a symptom.
It's probably the smoke and
not the fire in my estimation.
>>REGINA: Interesting, because
detoxing is, what, a $1 billion
industry or something by now?
>>PARK: What does that
even mean, though?
I mean, detoxing, you know, it--
>>REGINA: Every kind
of detox product,
people that take people through
detox products and protocols
and--
>>PARK: The thing is, I think
that's more of a placebo effect
because people they
kind of ascribe
a spiritual valence to detox.
Their lives are toxic,
so if I do a cleanse
or I get rid of these things,
it kind of intuitively
gibes with us.
Now, whether your chromium
or your lead really goes down
or your cells really go into
apoptosis and get replaced
is questionable.
>>REGINA: I mean, there are
some very logical levels of it,
which is if you
eat a lot of sugar,
you probably have certain
things like candida
and other things in your cells
that you probably don't want.
>>PARK: All true.
All true.
But my mind was
looking for something
that's more fundamental.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARK: And that's
like one explanation.
>>REGINA: It
doesn't help to have
toxic chemicals and other
substances in the body.
But you're saying, that's
still not the thing that
makes us age.
>>PARK: Could be.
You know, I'm not-- I'm just out
here espousing my one theory.
But my one theory is so simple
that it kind of explains
all the other theories.
>>REGINA: OK, so let's now go
to the next one, oxidation.
And let's go back to
resveratrol and Q10.
I've taken Q10 for years
and with some good results,
especially early on.
Let's talk about
that, oxidation.
>>PARK: Well, this is
an interesting one.
>>REGINA: Why do you
call it a red herring?
>>PARK: Well, yeah,
so oxidation is
when you look at
old and dying cells,
there's a lot of
oxidative species
or really reactive stuff.
And that comes from the
mitochondria primarily.
Mitochondria are like
little paramecium,
and they have
battery acid in them.
But the last step
before a cell knows
it's damaged and
tries to kill itself,
like the Wicked
Witch melts itself,
is it pokes a bunch of
holes into its mitochondria
and allows itself
to melt itself.
And there are many
triggers to that,
but the primary one
is-- the primary one
is the P53 mechanism, which
is a cell checks to make
sure it's DNA is OK.
If it's not OK, it kills itself.
And the way it does
that is by poking holes
in the mitochondria.
So it's kind of
like you go there,
and there's all this ash and
water and destroyed stuff,
and there was a fire.
But you don't think, well,
the arsonist was the cell.
The cell was trying
to kill itself.
So this whole great
intuitively appealing industry
was built around
antioxidants because we
know that old and
dying cells have
a lot of oxidation going
on, so let's try and squash
the oxidation.
But that may have been how the
cell was trying to kill itself,
so there may have been
something more proximate
that the cell was trying to do.
>>REGINA: Still
something more primal,
which is interesting
when you're looking
at life on that
fundamental of level,
that cells, once they have
the indication that they're
no longer viable, will,
through a beautiful mechanism,
they'll kill themselves.
>>PARK: That's right.
>>REGINA: What's that say
about the whole notion
of competition?
You know, everything
competing for its own life
at the expense of the
whole, this really
shows us a very different
picture at a tiny level.
>>PARK: Well, that's
why I quoted this,
there's this Durkheim
quote at the beginning
of that chapter about
apoptois, the concept
of altruistic suicide.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARK: That doesn't exist
for us as well, maybe
in a heroic movie or something.
But you can't think
of it in terms
of like the cells are selfish,
or the genes are selfish.
They know they have a role
within the context of the organ
and the ecology of
that whole being.
And their prime directive.
If you will, to borrow
a term from "Star Trek,"
is to kill themselves.
Like they're constantly
monitoring themselves
for errors, and they
want to kill themselves.
They feel no passion
about dying because that's
their programming.
If I'm messed up,
then I'm going to die.
And so a lot of what
we have is cells
that go into a sort of
curmudgeonly grumpy old man
syndrome.
They go into senescence,
and they hang around.
They hold up that spot
in the stem cell niche.
So I believe that
adaptogens, the way
they work a lot is by coaxing
these cells to undergo suicide.
And then an empty
seat is freed up
and a newer, hopefully
better stem cell
will come and reconstitute
that whole niche.
>>REGINA: I just find
that interesting on a kind
of philosophical level even.
What about Richard Dawkins
and "The Selfish Gene?"
>>PARK: Yeah.
So you know, Richard Dawkins,
I think he's a genius.
And there are a lot
of these people.
But once you reach a
certain level of notoriety,
you kind of-- anything you say
is taken as some kind of tablet
from the mountain.
And so his whole
version of atheism
is kind of religious in
and of itself, I think.
But like Hameroff, we talked--
>>REGINA: Stuart Hameroff.
>>PARK: Right.
His idea was,
well, microtubules,
nobody understands
how they work,
so that must be the
locus of action.
They're getting
a cosmic download
from source consciousness.
Well, he just chose to focus at
that level of depth of field.
Dawkins focused on
the selfish gene,
which is-- I don't think
evolution occurs on that level.
Most of the Darwinian evolution
is on the species level, right?
But I think that when we
focus on just one theory
to the exclusion of
others, we get closer
to a reductionist truth,
but we don't get closer
to the real truth which
is that everything
is a conscious co-creation,
to use that very trite term.
>>REGINA: No, but it's true.
>>PARK: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now let's talk about where-- you
alluded to it a little bit ago.
Where do stem cells
come into all of this?
>>PARK: Right.
So if you read my book,
"Telomere Timebombs,"
we kind of go through all those
theories, try to debunk them.
But the thing that made
the most sense to me
was that, OK, this is a truism.
All DNA is copied.
But you can't copy to the very
end, so it shortens just a bit.
It's a mechanical thing.
So in regular cells, we've
known for a long time
that if you put regular
cells in a dish,
contrary to what was believed,
they're not immortal.
They'll divide 40 to 60
times, and then they'll
become old and just peter out.
But in 2009, they acknowledged
this decades-old discovery
that eukaryotes-- or fungi,
plants, and animals--
have a telomerase
enzyme which is
a micro-machine in that
cell which will relengthen.
So if you look at the
ends of chromosomes--
and of course, all
plants, animals,
fungi have chromosomes
that are like bow ties.
And at the ends,
there are these tips.
The tips are like
firecracker fuses.
So quite literally, if they
get to the melting point,
where they're at the end--
and this is not fringe theory.
This is the fundamental
bedrock of molecular biology.
Those chromosomes
will recombine.
They'll cause mutations.
And we're off to cellular
dysfunction and maybe death.
So the telomerase
allows it to relengthen,
and so that's what
a stem cell is.
A stem cell is an
enzyme-- or I'm sorry,
a stem cell is a cell that is
able to use telomerase to stay
alive forever.
And then it also
divides asymmetrically
which means it's a
master copy, and it makes
a more differentiated cell.
So my theory is that all
of aging and disease,
even though there are
specific congenital diseases,
there are things that can cause
disease in different ways,
it all boils down to the fact
that telomeres are shortening,
and they're causing
genetic damage.
And so if it manifests in the
pancreas, you get diabetes.
In the brain, you
get Alzheimer's.
I believe it's one
disease with many faces.
And the nice thing
is at the core of it,
the cells are able to
recognize, as we've said,
their dysfunction.
They kill themselves.
So the body is in a
constant state of renewal.
And the ecology is set up
so that we can live forever.
So going back to why
take it in the 20s,
if you bought a Lamborghini,
you wouldn't change the oil
every 30,000 miles.
You would change it
every 1,500 miles.
And you would maintain it.
So it's easier to prevent
damage before it occurs.
Once you get into
someone who's 112,
it's very hard, because if you
kill off the bad cells, OK,
maybe there are some good
pigment-producing cells that
have been dormant.
But the replacement
versions that come in
aren't that hot either.
>>REGINA: Let's continue
on stem cells for a moment,
because all kinds of
ingenious stem cell therapies
have made their way
onto the market.
You can buy face cream with
stem cells in it now, right?
>>PARK: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
When it gets to
that level, I have
to start asking some questions
about the integrity of it.
Not that it's not
good or not working,
but I would like to know more.
And you said in the book that
the problem with stem cell
therapy is if it is not
your own source stem cells,
and particularly if
it's from other species,
it's not going to work, right?
>>PARK: Right.
So unfortunately, people
are a little bit lazy.
They use mental shorthand.
Stem cells good, stem cells bad.
I mean, stem cells are just
master copies, like queen bees.
And it's just how
the system is set up,
like not every cell in
our liver is a stem cell.
They're very rare,
so it's just a truism
that all the daughters from that
one mom printing out her copies
bear the same
genetic good things
but mostly bad things or
errors that she's accumulated.
So when you take stem cell
therapy from a black goat,
there's a lot of incompatibility
because the exterior
histocompatibility antigens
are totally mismatched,
so you get host versus
graft disease, which
is a fancy way of saying,
within hours of laying down
your $10,000, your
body has already
destroyed those foreign cells.
>>REGINA: Started
adapting, yeah.
>>PARK: And you're left to
whatever placebo effect there
might be.
Now if you take another
person's cells, then maybe
a little less,
maybe if it was cord
blood from your twin
sister, maybe a little less.
>>REGINA: I was going
to ask about that.
Yeah.
>>PARK: And if
it's from yourself
when your mom banked it on the
date of your birth, even less.
But the gold standard
of stem therapy
is what's coming very
soon, which is your own.
>>REGINA: Well, I was
wondering about that,
that's derived from
adipose tissue for example.
How do they get the best source
of someone, a mature person's
stem cells?
>>PARK: Good question.
I don't really-- this is
not my area of expertise.
From what I understand, you
go and you get a liposuction.
They have markers
for your stem cells.
And then they could
transfuse them back.
But it's really on
the level of-- I don't
want to use a pejorative word.
But it's not really that ready
for prime time, let's say.
I mean, yes, it helps
a lot of people.
>>REGINA: The
science is still new.
>>PARK: But it's not like
you can just use a tricorder
and say, these are
the stem cells.
We're going to
custom-differentiate them
and put them back
into your retina.
It's getting there.
It'll get there.
But I was trying to get
the point that custom stem
cells is really the way to go.
>>REGINA: So how's that go?
How does that work?
>>PARK: Well, OK.
So if you take out my stem
cells from my adipose,
they're 47-year-old stem cells.
They've acquired all the errors
of all their predecessors.
If my mom had the foresight
to bank my perfect DNA,
or as perfect as it
comes, when I was young,
you'll have a good library,
"Encyclopedia Britannica"
first day of
manufacture, and then
you can take that and put
it into a healthy vehicle.
And then they'll be able
to throw the switches
and custom-differentiate
every organ,
hopefully without any
histocompatibility issues,
so you can get your own
custom liver, kidney back.
That's better
immunologically speaking.
And they're getting
better at understanding
how to force differentiation.
>>REGINA: Including
with mature stem
cells from the adipose tissue?
>>PARK: Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, that's good.
But they just this
year learned how
to do cloning so they could take
your DNA, as good as it gets,
and put it into a healthy cell.
And that's really
going to be the gold--
or the next frontier,
because you'll be 120
but you'll look like
you're 20, because you
have all brand new
replacement parts.
You can drive a Model T now
that looks nice because they
make new parts for it.
It's still a Model T.
And that's kind of the
model we're going at.
We're not looking
at some magic here.
We're just talking about custom
replacement stem cell parts.
>>REGINA: No.
It is a fascinating
area under development.
OK.
Now let's talk about
the extreme examples,
where a body, a
little young person
is aging extremely rapidly.
Is it called progeria?
>>PARK: Yes.
>>REGINA: Progeria.
>>PARK: Well, now this
is the interesting thing.
And this is the
validation for why
I think the stem cell
and the telomerase
are the key because there
are many forms of progeria.
But one of the most classic
is when the telomerase is not
working.
And then you get at the age of
10 to 14, senescence and death.
People die of Alzheimer's,
heart disease, sometimes cancer.
They're old people.
So we have a natural
model for aging.
And so it would be exciting
to used telomerase activators
or maybe gene therapy to
see if we can stave that
off or reverse that because in
the mouse in different ways,
three different
types of experiments,
we have seen actual
age reversal.
So that's something that of
course is very exciting to us.
But when we talk about
telomerase activation
or adaptogens in general,
it's like stem cell therapy
that you don't go to
Venezuela or Vietnam for.
What it's really
doing, I believe,
is causing apoptosis in
the dysfunctional cells,
or sometimes senescence.
And it's allowing
your own ecology
to replace it with something
better and more effective,
we hope.
>>REGINA: So as you say,
that differentiation
of the cellular redevelopment
is happening through whatever
adaptogen you may be using.
It can happen through
a number of them.
It's just that one that's
been particularly effective
has been discovered, right?
And this is--
>>PARK: I think so.
I think so.
Well, you know, it's
really interesting,
because our friend
Suzanne Somers,
she was instrumental in
getting breast reconstructive
stem cell therapy.
But you know, the breast shape
will regress after a while
because what you're
really doing is
you're putting 200 chairs
into a gymnasium that's only
supposed to have 100 chairs.
So it's not just-- our
system is fundamentally
designed to use these things
called mesenchymal stem cells.
They're frozen in your
cartilage for decades.
And so when a signal
goes out that says,
we've had massive damage, we
need replacement queen bees
throughout the body
or in just one place,
these mesenchymal stem cells
are thawed out like TV dinners.
They go to the spot where
there's a job vacancy.
And then they'll differentiate
into a liver cell.
And as we learn more,
they can differentiate
into cardiac, everything.
So they're kind of a factotum.
They do it all.
Handyman.
>>REGINA: What an amazing
mechanism in the body.
So essentially, are
you saying those
are the original "Encyclopedia
Britannica" type of cells that
are just frozen
there in each of us
waiting until they have
to be called into action?
>>PARK: It's a very
ingenious system
because it's in frozen
suspended animation.
But if you try and send that
in to a place where they're
already filled with a bunch
of dysfunctional cells
that aren't giving
up their jobs,
those are the queen bees
there, it doesn't work.
So that's the problem
with stem cell therapy.
You may get a transient
effect, but the real problem
is that your organs are
bathed in stem cells,
and there's no job vacancies.
So unless you can target
them, kill them, and then
get fresh mesenchymal
troops to come in
and differentiate into
healthier queen bees,
you don't get a lot
of bang for your buck.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now that's bringing me to
the subject of chemotherapy,
and what it's actually
doing in the body.
>>PARK: Well,
chemotherapy is great
if you're one of the lucky ones.
But because it's a
generalized poison,
it attacks all
healthy cells too,
all your immune system, your
hair, your gut, and your brain.
So all the healthy cells
that are reproducing get
attacked too.
So your goal is, it's kind of
like you have a hostage, bank
hostage situation.
You throw in sarin
gas, and you're
hoping that the good
guys will survive.
But when you do something
that's an adaptogen,
or healthy holistic things,
you take the opposite approach,
right?
You're not trying to poison
everyone and hope for the best.
What you're trying to
do is empower everyone.
So it's like sending a crate
full of automatic weapons
into the bank situation.
You hope that the immune
system overwhelms the bad guys,
so it's very opposite.
And I think that years
from now we'll say,
oh my god, I can't believe
we gave chemotherapy.
It's so primitive and barbaric
because it is so nonspecific.
>>REGINA: What does
that do to the stem
cells that have been waiting,
in wait to perform their job?
What happens to them
during chemotherapy?
>>PARK: Well, yeah, I mean,
it kills all the stem cells,
doesn't it?
So you're hoping
that in the cartilage
or in the frozen reserve
bank because they're
in frozen stasis, they
haven't been affected.
And there's no reason to
think that they would be.
But that's the problem.
When you nuke someone's
immune system,
then it's kind of dicey to know.
That's why the stem cell
bone marrow transplant
has had a rough start.
You kill everything.
And you need to have a
system to reconstitute
a healthy immune system.
And that's not always a gimme.
>>REGINA: Right.
OK.
There's another area.
Now we're going into the
longevity of cells again,
Alex or is it Alexis Carrel?
>>PARK: Yeah.
Alexis Carrel.
>>REGINA: Alexis Carrel.
And is it the chicken
liver or chicken heart?
>>PARK: Chicken heart, yeah.
>>REGINA: Cells that remained
alive for a very long period.
Tell us about that so we
can get a glimpse of what
can maintain cellular life for
this ridiculous amount of time.
>>PARK: Well, that's the
interesting thing about dogma
and how slowly we used to
acquire new information.
This was-- I think he
was a Hungarian Nazi,
but you know, a
friend of Lindbergh.
But he was famous,
I think he might
have won a Nobel
or some big prize,
cover of "Time,"
for these chicken
embryo cells that stayed alive
for 30 years or something.
And people thought it
was like that was it.
He decided, no one checked it,
chicken embryos live forever,
hence all cells live forever.
And then this other
gentlemen, Leonard Hayflick,
came in, who was interviewed
in "The Immortalists,"
of Jewish descent.
And he put dishes--
or I'm sorry.
He put cells in a dish.
And they only lived
40 to 60 generations.
And then for the next
50 years everyone
thought, oh, Hayflick's right.
Carrel was wrong.
Cells only live a
certain amount of time.
And they weren't
sure, but they thought
it was because of the
end replication problem,
the erosion of the telomeres.
Well, come to find that
they're both right.
Depending on how stem-like or
how much telomerase activity
occurs, a cell can be immortal,
like these Henrietta Lacks
cells, like all cancer cells.
So like all your sperm and
eggs, they're immortal.
They transmit forever because
they have active telomerase.
So you know, it's really
funny how everyone just said,
oh, Carrel's right.
All cells are always
immortal, which
if you do a thought
experiment, doesn't make sense.
If all cells were all immortal
and they're always dividing,
we would become giant blobs
very quickly, unsustainable.
So the system is set up for
us that we have very rare stem
cells, one in millions.
And then all the rest of
them are little daughters
which have a finite lifespan.
So it's a very elegant system.
Now, in some invertebrates
and other species where
they have telomerase activity
in a lot of cells, a lot of them
are stem-like, they're
actually immortal.
And that's how you
get like a squid
the size of a Jules
Verne submarine
or lobsters that just
molt until the Red Lobster
guy catches them.
They just grow.
But so far, I think we
can work with our system
to stay much more long and
sustainable without getting
physically larger.
But we just do better
maintenance with our ecology,
clean up the bad stem cells,
preserve the good ones.
>>REGINA: I talked a little
bit-- you mentioned cancer
again a moment ago--
with Bill Andrews
in the other conversation
about the notion there
was some thought that maybe
lengthening telomeres could
cause cancer.
And I guess it's come around now
to the studies are showing, no,
that does not appear
to be the case.
And you say also it's
clear to understand
that cancer is not hereditary.
Is that correct?
>>PARK: Well, it means known
fact-- epidemiologically
that the majority
of cases, there's
no pre-existing family
history that we would consider
causative, like the BRCA gene,
like the "bracka" gene, you
know, that accounts for a very
small, probably less than 10%
of all the breast cancers.
And ironically, the
breast cancer genes
are actually the opposite.
They're actually genes
responsible for helping
the cell recognize its own
damage and die, actually.
And so when you have one
good copy of a BRCA gene
and you lose it
in that stem cell,
then you have no good copies
and then you have a problem.
You have poor self-regulation
of that stem cell.
But the fundamental question
is, does telomerase activation
cause cancer?
And experimentally,
it doesn't appear
to be-- that doesn't
appear to be the case.
Because 85% of tumors
do express telomerase,
people naturally
are fearful of that.
But I believe it's the
telomerase activity
is maintained.
So instead of being
a Jimmy Olsen,
like a regular, run of
the mill cub reporter,
it's already a Clark Kent cell.
So it's reached orthodoxy
that most people,
or a lot of
scientists, maybe 51%,
think that cancer usually
is a stem cell disease.
It's not a run of
the mill disease,
so it's just a retained
ability of that stem cell.
And it makes sense.
You take an already immortal
superhero cell, you mess it up.
It maintains its immortality.
You don't take a Jimmy Olsen
cell and then turn on things.
It's already damaged
and dysfunctional,
30 generations old.
There are exceptions.
But in general, I
believe that cancer
is a disease of stem cells,
so the telomerase activity is
a retained property of that.
>>REGINA: OK.
Thank you for making
the differentiation.
Now, we're getting to the part
we're going to talk about some
of the even products that
are out there on the market
and some other
ways we can manage
this rebuilding of telomerase
on the end of our chromosomes.
But let's talk about the
test, because you said to me
off-camera, you say, the
best thing we have to use,
there are these
telomerase tests.
But they're not reliable.
It's both, but it's
the best we have now.
Can you talk about
those telomerase tests?
>>PARK: Well, you
know, I didn't mean
to say they weren't reliable.
They're reproducible.
But they've been going
through constant improvement.
But the problem
is-- and you know,
I've talked to the owners and
scientists in these companies,
there's maybe five
or six companies.
They all disagree.
The only thing they can agree
on is that the other people
are wrong, right?
So they use different tests,
different body fluids.
And when you talk
about predicting
someone's age or their
life expectancy based
on telomere length,
that's a nonstarter.
And that was something
that got a lot of buzz
in the press a couple years ago.
If there was a test
now to tell you
how long you're going to
live, would you take it?
It's totally false.
>>REGINA: But what
is the value in them?
>>PARK: I think it's
a good benchmark.
I mean, it's kind of like a
snapshot of where you are.
And in the future,
we'll have the ability
to understand how that changes.
But ideally, we should
be able to measure
not the telomere length
but the damage of what's
in between the telomeres.
So ideally, what
you want is to be
able to measure not just
the length of telomeres,
like how much wick is left
on the candle or firecracker.
What you want to know
is how much damage
has gone on in the chromosome.
And so we'll have the
ability to wave a tricorder
and say, oh, your brain
has 30% of its stem
cells are significantly damaged,
or your heart is 60% damaged.
Right now, we can measure how
much critical shortening there
is on the telomere ends,
which is very helpful.
So within the context of one
patient that I'm caring for,
to have that snapshot and
to follow it is very useful.
But you can't tell people, well,
you have 18 1/2 years to live.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARK: Yeah.
It's just nonsense.
>>REGINA: OK.
So let's talk about TA-65, which
is the product you were talking
about that you were
given license to sell
and that you still deal
with, and what TA-65
is and also the active
ingredient in it, and so forth.
>>PARK: So TA-65 is a
proprietary molecule
that was discovered--
it's an extract
from a Chinese longevity
herb called astragalus.
Now the identity of the
molecule is not known,
nor has it been divulged to me.
There's widespread
speculation on that topic.
Within this country, they
were awarded, Geron that is,
and that subsequently--
>>REGINA: Geron Corporation?
>>PARK: Geron Corporation
was subsequently
sold to TA Sciences, so TA-65
is the proprietary version
of this unknown extract
of the astragalus plant.
>>REGINA: Some active, one of
the active chemicals in it.
>>PARK: Yeah.
It's a molecule that
naturally occurs
in this longevity herb
which has been known
for thousands of years
in Chinese medicine
to be a chi tonifier.
And it's in the
heaven class of herbs,
which means it increases your
chi or your prana, your life
force.
And it was used for
longevity and immunity, which
now jives with this
modern science,
because we know that thymic
aging, immune aging is
part and parcel of why we age.
>>REGINA: And astragalus
is pretty well accepted.
>>PARK: Yeah.
Yeah.
But this is not astragalus root.
This is just the
purified, like pure--
>>REGINA: I know.
Yes.
So I was going to say, the
next question people say,
oh, I take astragalus.
So?
>>PARK: Well, it would be the
difference between Taxol, which
is from the Pacific yew tree,
and that one molecule which
is extracted for
pharmaceutical use.
And that is a
microtubule inhibitor.
It inhibits the aggregation.
And that's why it's
a great cancer drug.
It keeps rapidly dividing
cells from rapidly dividing.
>>REGINA: So among
this, I would like
to get-- I wouldn't
mind you at this point
just kind of give us some
ideas of some startling sort
of responses, some maybe
beyond the average response
that a person would have to
the astragalus compound you're
talking about in TA-65.
What kind of results
have some people gotten?
And then who's-- what
happens on the other end,
where nothing happens?
>>PARK: Well, I have
to just, you know,
put a massive disclaimer
out right here.
>>REGINA: Yes, do.
>>PARK: These statements have
not been approved by the FDA.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARK: TA-65 is not approved
for treatment of any disease.
Read it right here.
But you know, it's
all just anecdotal.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARK: But it's interesting.
You can't really predict
how a person will react.
There are only a few
constants or truisms.
It seems to have a very profound
effect on most people's sleep.
And so they sleep deeper,
often with more abrupt brief
interruption or
brief awakenings.
Their dreams tend to be
vivid, if they dream.
Now, one of the most
intriguing things
is older people
who haven't dreamt
for decades can sometimes
recover dream function, which
to me functionally implies some
kind of anatomic improvement,
rewiring, which is great.
I mean another of the
dogmas that we were handed
in med school was that you don't
make new brain cells, which
you do, actually.
You make about 10,000
new brain cells a night.
And that's what dreaming
and neurogenesis is,
so there's a tremendous
neuroplasticity.
Anecdotally, some people
report improvements
in their glycemic control
or their blood sugars.
So that's nice.
Most people have
better exercise,
and recovery
especially, which stands
to reason, because your cells as
they're damaged need to repair.
And a lot of that
is just massive
stem cell action, just
pumping out new muscle.
>>REGINA: Using a lot
of energy in the body.
>>PARK: Yeah.
So that's exciting.
But again, it's a panacea
and it's a placebo,
but without the
pejorative connotation.
It really works differently,
adaptogenically with everyone.
>>REGINA: Are there some people
who have no response to it
at all, no
recognizable response?
>>PARK: Certainly, yeah.
It's rare.
I would say 1 in 10.
A lot of it has to with
absorption, attribution.
Some people just are not
attuned to their bodies.
But it's rare.
And that's what distinguishes
it from other classes
of neutroceuticals or
things that people take.
A lot of times people
go weeks and months
and are not really sure,
but they think it's working.
But this has a pretty profound
effect from the first night,
which is nice.
>>REGINA: And what about the
whole notion that again, there
are many different elements
of keeping our being youthful,
having to do with diet,
exercise, getting proper sleep,
meditation, and all that.
Where does that factor
in in your world?
>>PARK: You know, I'm
grateful for Gaiam
because I'm learning more
about that, actually.
We have open minds.
I guess it's like the
name of your show is that.
When we came through med
school, the general thing
was alternative
complementary was a tagline
or sort of like a
metaphor for quackery,
stuff that doesn't work.
But I think that it's all good.
You know, a study came
out in Huffington Post,
well, the studies don't
come out in Huffington Post,
but they're talking about
huge analysis of thousands
of people, their telomeres,
and they related it back
to the Mediterranean diet.
And the public loves this, oh,
red wine, Mediterranean diet.
>>REGINA: Lots of olive oil.
>>PARK: French-- but it's
just a simplification.
But yeah, it's all
true on some level.
So obviously, and it happens
to be true, if you eat well,
if you meditate, exercise,
think good thoughts,
you're going to get better
functionally on every level.
And if you do the opposite,
if you don't eat well
and you perseverate
on nasty thoughts
and you live in
fear and bad sleep,
you're going to
get sicker faster.
So I've come to realize
that it's all about just
the flow of whatever
it is that's flowing,
consciousness, life
energy, microtubules.
But when things are blocked and
you fixate and it's not flowing
and it's not integrated and
balanced, people get stuck.
So it sounds crazy,
but people who
are unable to
express themselves,
maybe they'll get
thyroid or throat cancer.
Or people who are worried
about their kids, maybe they'll
get breast cancer.
I don't know.
It's just all kind of crazy.
But I'm just learning
more and more about this,
so I'm very interested--
>>REGINA: Well, one
thing did I ask about,
and I think it was
Bill Andrews, not
Terry Grossman who validated
that was that anything you
do that is creating
extraordinarily
high levels of cortisol
production in the body
has the effect of shortening
the length of the telomeres.
>>PARK: Oh, there's no question.
And that's the fun thing
about integrating science
into holistic medicine.
When you look at T-cells
bathed in cortisol,
their telomerase
activity is nonexistent
which fits in the whole
function of cortisol.
>>REGINA: And we're
cortisol junkies.
We're adrenaline junkies
now, in the Western world.
>>PARK: Yeah.
But it all has to do
with integration, right?
So if people are constantly
bathed in stress hormone,
then there are two--
what's the word?
Yin and yang, they're in this
state of yang activity, right?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARK: They're constantly
out there tearing it up.
>>REGINA: It's a
destructive force.
>>PARK: So I think there
needs to be balance.
I mean, all the symbols
around here describe
an attitude, which people
are starting to accept now,
that you need balance.
Sleep is not wasted time.
It's the time when your body's
most actively reconstructing
itself.
All the cells are copying.
They're rebalancing.
You're re-learning.
So you need that sort of
yin phase, the restoration.
You can't always be on the go.
And so it's all about balance.
>>REGINA: And maybe
that's really more
what the Mediterranean
diet study was indicating,
was that you have people maybe
that are living a slightly more
in balance life, I mean, family,
a glass of wine, mom, grandma
still cook together
in some cases.
And you're leading a life
that is maybe a little lower
on the stress scale,
and that's why.
>>PARK: Absolutely.
Well, you know, maybe you're
a Greek civil servant.
You don't have a job to go to.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
there's also that too.
>>PARK: Too soon?
You're just throwing
back the ouzo
and checking out the donkeys
and the pretty girls.
I don't know.
Who knows?
>>REGINA: Well, I have
to say-- after we talked,
and I read your book, which
every third page is dog-eared,
I found it really interesting.
I find all these
sciences interesting.
And I said, you know what?
Before the interview, I
want to take it and see
if I see anything,
because I'll always,
as long as it seems
relatively safe,
try something new in
prep for an interview
or because of an interviewee.
And I do have to say--
I mean, the caveat
is we're all different.
One thing I've learned, no
two bodies, minds, thumbprints
are alike.
But for my body, without
really expecting anything
to happen in that
short a time, I
noticed the sleep
thing, much deeper.
And I noticed going back
into really deep sleep.
And you're right, even
more active dreaming time.
So that was my experience of it.
>>PARK: Which is
interesting, because I've
had people stop taking
things like adaptogens
because they had nightmares.
So the question is,
is the nightmare
a side effect of the adaptogen?
No.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>PARK: The nightmare
is because you
went to sleep thinking about
all the things you don't have
and the things that are
hurting you and chasing you.
So it's like you go
into the multiplex,
you go into where the
horror film is showing,
not where the rom com is.
So you really do need
to set the agenda
before you go to
sleep of gratitude,
even if you're not feeling it.
>>REGINA: Especially if
you're going to be activating
your dream state--
>>PARK: Oh my god, yeah.
>>REGINA: --in
full living color.
I mean, I'm lucky I
don't have nightmares.
But I have had some kind of
revelatory dreams, even about
friends, where I'll
say, hey, just woke up
having this dream about you.
Just wanted to give
you the heads-up.
>>PARK: Oh, your mind is
a very powerful thing.
So if you go to sleep
angry at your spouse,
you're going to wake
up angrier, you know.
And likewise with
manifesting good things.
So you just really have to-- I
guess from "White Christmas,"
count your blessings instead
of your sheep, right?
>>REGINA: Yes.
Exactly.
Any final thoughts
before we sign off?
We're just about out of time.
>>PARK: No.
I just hope that--
obviously, your audience
is very open-minded.
And I hope they'll take the
time to google it and learn
about telomeres.
And if they're interested, they
can learn more from my videos.
But you know, we're
not selling anything
that's snake oil or hokum.
My whole purpose
for being here is
to say, look, I could be wrong.
But there's one
explanation that's
very simple in align
with all basic science,
and I believe something that
people will come to realize,
which is that there
really is just one
disease with many faces.
But there are many cures
and there's many ways
to stay healthy and
be healthy, so people
need to trust their intuition
about what's right, right?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARK: I mean,
if you sit across
from a doctor, an expert, and
they tell you what's right,
you're going to go to
that place where you
need to just obey and listen.
But people are very smart.
And they can intuit whether
someone's telling the truth.
And I would just
say, go with that,
because there's a lot of
hucksterism out there.
There's a lot of people
selling snake oil.
But, you know, even snake oil
can work if you believe it.
But it only goes so far.
What we're talking about
is a fundamental change
in how we think about
physiology and wellness
and how to maintain that.
And you can get there from
exercise, yoga, from Sudoku.
But trust how you can maintain
your own health and wellness
because once you embark down
the pathway of like, oh my god,
you have to listen to
all the authorities,
you can get led astray, I think.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
It's very confusing.
And again, no two
bodies are alike.
And this is an evolving
science, and you're
capturing it and
doing what you can
with that science in the
state it's in right now.
>>PARK: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Pretty much.
>>PARK: Just throwing
it out there.
>>REGINA: Thank you so much.
>>PARK: Sure.
Thank you so much.
>>REGINA: You speak very
eloquently on the subject.
I've really enjoyed
talking with you.
>>PARK: Thanks.
>>REGINA: So
meanwhile, for you, you
can go to telomeretimebomb.com.
Is it timebomb or timebombs?
>>PARK: Timebombs, yes.
>>REGINA: Timebombs,
telomeretimebombs.com.
And you'll be able to take
a look at some of the videos
that he's been talking about,
about these personal studies
and science.
And you can also
go to Amazon.com,
other major booksellers to find
the book, "Telomere Timebombs."
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]